Okay, so, what we've talked about is so
far how we share information, right?
Which of these benefits us the most,
and then basically what we prefer.
So there's a couple things that
are still not really fully solved
here that we can talk about.
Does anyone know what one
of those things might be?
Maybe what is that one unsolved
thing that's still sitting here?
I'll give you a hint,
my cursor's on it [LAUGH].
>> Can't track what people use, I guess.
And if you're talking about a centralized
documentation platform, we've tried and
we've used stuff like that.
We don't really talk a lot about
the cons of it in this document either.
And that once you separate the
documentation away from where the problem
is, it becomes way less
likely to be managed.
And you can talk about idealistic culture,
and
then there's also the reality of
what people use on a daily basis.
>> Right.
>> And I think that could be reflected
in this document as well, too.
>> Yeah, I agree.
Okay, so, let's talk about it then.
We've talked about the pros.
What are the pain-points we've dealt with,
yep?
>> Someone in chat said
that some developers may or
may not like writing documentation.
And generally,
it's taking away from the time that
they have to do their deliverables,
unless there's actually time accounted for
and it's treated as a deliverable.
>> Yeah, okay.
Yeah, that's a good one.
I can talk about that cuz it's
very similar to what she's
talking about as well.
Most of what we've said so
far is culture, right?
[LAUGH] It really is.
I would argue that no
company is too big for
two things, testing and documentation.
If you're not testing,
you're doing it wrong.
If you're not writing documentation,
There's that whole argument of
doing test-driven development.
Yeah, TDD, thank you.
[LAUGH] Yeah, how many companies shoot
that down because of the time, right?
Well, you can also argue that that time
invested can save you a lot of time,
[LAUGH] you know what I mean.
Having well structured tests
around them and things like that.
So, it's a fair pain-point.
But I would also say that
I don't if it's one that
you would want to just not think about.
The reality of this is engineering is
about knowledge sharing as much it
is about building things.
And I think what culturally you're
not realizing is you're not doing
justice to the team when you're
not sharing that information.
And that's something I had to learn
in DevOps, because I went out and
changed our whole CI platform one day,
and nobody knew what happened.
[LAUGH] And then I had to spend the next
three months explaining everything,
writing it down into technical
documentation and stuff like that.
I do wanna get into some
more of these pain-points.
I would love to know more of what your
thoughts are on those pain-points,
cuz it seems like you've definitely
gone through them, so hit me.
What do you got?
>> Yeah, I don't know.
This is just a general complaint
about people that they
really hate duplication to
a point that it's flawed.
And that instead of just having that
information pointed at it in multiple
places, or like, okay,
you could have that blog but
we also reference it in the Slack channel,
and it'll also be this email blast.
>> Right.
>> That's a better way to centralize it
because you've got people who check your
email, you got people who check Slack,
you've got people who have their wiki
bookmarked and just always use that.
So instead of trying to force
everyone into one solution,
you could just let people trail in
their own way, whatever you wanna do.
And whenever I've used a centralized
documentation platform
like Atlassian Confluence or
Notion, it becomes this outdated,
disorganized mess really fast,
and nobody wants to deal with it.
And it's just like, okay, well,
this is about this project that
should be near the project.
And if you try to make a note
documents because it was like,
we have this new note document and
we got to use their note documents thing.
And then you don't do it in the right
places in the right circumstances,
people just go, well,
I didn't really like that.
A lot of them have terrible searching,
so you can't actually find
what you're looking for.
>> [LAUGH] I feel like you're just
talking about Confluence [LAUGH].
>> I've had the same problem with Notion.
I've used both and I hated both of them.
>> That's fair.
>> I don't do any of that.
I search everything through Slack, and
everything that we do is through Slack.
Because everything could be found
in Slack, I can search it in Slack.
I know somebody talked about it in Slack,
it's got live problem solving.
And the way that some people who like
more documentation than others deal
with it is they like daily
notes about what they're doing.
They have got their own repos where they
take notes and they upload it every day.
And you can track their work through
entirety, and that works for them.
And that way you're not spending time.
I think the complaint about developers
not writing documentation is,
people have this idea that it has
to be this massively organized,
perfectly written source of thought that
is presentable to the board or something.
That's not the point of it.
I think if a basic person can follow it,
you're doing what you need to be doing.
>> Yeah.
>> Also if your company is not letting
you do documentation at the basic level,
maybe stop pointing as much,
I hate points also.
>> Yeah, [LAUGH].
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> No, hey listen, I actually have not
said this live publicly yet, but I will.
And now that everybody's watching me,
I actually believe that pointing
ruins software development.
I hate to say it but
it's such a random number that
developers don't actually care about.
I've never point at something and
then been like, yeah, I'm gonna get this.
I don't really care,
I'm only doing it because you want me to,
[LAUGH] you know what I mean.
Super fair, yeah, super fair.
So let's talk about these a little bit,
right?
In your mind,
why do you think we have duplication?
>> I think a lot of
duplication serves a purpose.
I don't hate duplication,
I think other people hate duplication.
>> So why do you like duplication?
>> Okay, I'm trying to rephrase
this in the right way.
Instead of trying to force everything
into one little box that makes
sense in this one central area,
you can have things that
are only related to the thoughts
that are relevant at the time.
Or you could just reference that other
document, for more of that stuff,
look it over here.
We cover some of it, but this one is
really about how to start up the app.
>> Is that duplication?
>> A little bit,
you can cover the same topics.
I think s lot of people were like,
well, that's about this service, so
it should all be here.
And you're like, well, this blog was for
our support engineers to figure out
how to answer customer questions.
>> I see.
>> And this blog is all about this
really just for the engineers to say,
this is what's gonna change
about your development,
that doesn't need to be in the same place.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah, it's the same release,
but different information for
different people.
And you can reference them both and
be like, hey,
if you're more interested in this part,
go over here.
>> Go over here, yeah.
So then would you say that really
what we hate is duplication of
documentation that says the same thing?
>> Yeah.
>> And we prefer to have what we'll call
links to contextual thoughts around
maybe problems or something like that.
I guess what I'm trying
to get at here is just,
we need to understand what duplication
is and how we're gonna utilize it.
And as I said before,
we can use any of these things.
But we can't go into the discussion of
just saying, it works for us, right?
We have to understand why it works for
us, right?
So, I guess in this mind set,
preferring to have links would be maybe,
like as you said,
maybe there's a DevOps section, right,
that focuses only on infrastructure
changes, right, and stuff,
I can't spell, structure,
changes, and stuff like that.
Maybe there's the frontend section,
right, and
that's focused on logical
changes pertaining to
the developers, right,
and things like that.
So I guess one follow-up question to that
is, would we still want these to exist?
Cuz I could still see this
in a centralized place,
just with better organization.
Would we in this scenario,
how do we care about linking, right?
Do we care about everything being in a
Slack thread versus, you know what I mean,
things like that?
>> I don't care as long, as it's close
to where you're trying to use it.
>> It's close to where,
can you define what that means?
>> I am trying to run the code, but you'll
change something running locally, right?
I don't wanna have to go to
a different app, look for
the instructions on the latest release.
It should be near the code
that it's relevant to.
>> Got you, so we're basically keeping
information as close to implementation.
>> Yeah, if you put it in
a totally separate area, it just.
>> Okay, well, I feel,
at least by that conversation,
we have a better understanding of
what duplication is now, right?
And so, I would agree with you.
I would actually say, okay,
you know what, this is a possibility of
saying duplication is actually good, as
long as we follow these standards, right?
Because I think one of the things
that's very easy about duplication is,
copy paste, copy paste,
copy paste, copy paste, right?
>> Yeah, the caveat to that statement is,
if you're putting the exact same thing in
two places, then it only updates in one
place when somebody updates something, and
then you've got different things,
not that.
I just mean, I don't hate making
the same announcement in a channel and
an email blast.
>> Sure, yeah, absolutely.
You got to get it to the people's eyes,
and I fully agree with that, yeah.
I think my focus was what you said, the
other part of, cuz that is a big problem.
Do not keep the same information
in multiple places, right?
That's really my big
frustration with it is, okay,
I'm looking at this, okay, I feel great.
And then I read the readme, which is right
next to the document and I started it and
it died, [LAUGH] right away.
Yeah, that one developer didn't
realize that the readme is actually in
the repository.
So they put it in Confluence,
sorry about that.
That's the culture I think that we're
trying to focus on here and avoid.
Okay, so, really quickly,
centralized documentation,
we'll say it can be a mess, sorry,
it can be a mess, and is lost.
Why can documentation be a mess?
[LAUGH] Can anyone put
that in a simple sense?
[LAUGH]
>> No plan and disorganization,
just no maintenance.
>> No planning, no standards,
no maintenance, right?
I think that this is something
that's also massively overlooked.
Is, you can't have a warehouse and
then not clean it and
take care of it from time to time, right?
And even if we have it in multiple places,
and this is a pro and
a con, it's something you can think about.
If we have everything in one place,
it's easier to update these things, right,
because we can easily just
find it in that one place.
If it's in different places, that's fine,
but we need planning around that,
we need standards around that, right?
We need to be able to say, okay, well,
it's on the blog, we got to update this
and then it's over here,
we need to update this, we got to do this.
We have to have a structure around it.
And I'm sorry to say this, but honestly,
this one here is just negligence.
That's all it is.
It's just negligence.
It's the company not realizing that
their main depot of information is
their most valuable.
And it's being kept in what you mentioned,
all the way at the top,
perpetuating tribal knowledge, right?
We haven't even really talked
about tribal knowledge, but
it's mostly because we don't want to,
right?
We wanna talk about, to get rid of that
because tribal knowledge is not good.
I know it seems like it might be, but
tribal knowledge is really not good.
If a person leaves the company
at any time, you're screwed,
[LAUGH] you know what I mean.
>> There's a fine line between tribal
knowledge and domain knowledge, and
specialization.
>> Exactly, yeah, exactly, exactly.
Tribal knowledge is, yeah, man,
he was here five years ago and
the database just works like this.
I don't know, ask him.
That's tribal knowledge, right?
Not the domain specific knowledge of,
we use Postgres because it indexes our
queries for us the right way, and
dah, dah, dah, dah, dah, right?
So we want to avoid that, right?
And we've already kind of
handled that a bit, right?
We've said that with messaging software,
we're gonna avoid tribal knowledge by just
creating an issue or a ticket, right?
Putting it somewhere where
things are being written.
And whether it be centralized or
not, right,
we can just say documentation platform,
right?
Same thing there.
Encouraging your co-workers to, anytime
you find yourself in a scenario where
somebody is like, that,
be like, cool, write it down.
[LAUGH] You know what I mean, because
when they do that, they won't forget it.
Here's a good example of that.
At my company, we've had this thing
where QA creates a lot of their
own AWS credentials, which we deal with.
[LAUGH] And so we have automation around
those policies and stuff, though.
However, it's a manual connection of
attaching the policy to the role.
And that gets kicked out for some reason,
we haven't discovered why but
the role just randomly gets removed.
So, for about a year, [LAUGH] every
three months without us realizing,
QA would come up to us and be like,
hey, our credentials have expired.
We had no idea what was going on.
Finally find out that the role
got kicked off of it, right?
Well, somebody forgot to write
documentation on it, for
the next time, we dealt with it.
And so I saw a Slack thread coming in
few months later, same problem, and
I literally just went,
is this the same thing we just dealt with?
And then, again,
somebody on my team went, write it down.
[LAUGH] And literally,
what did we do going forward?
We didn't solve the problem,
I can say that holistically, we didn't.
But we gave a path that we can move
forward with the next time this
happens, right?
It has become tribal knowledge that this
is what happens, however, I'm impacting
somebody that doesn't know that tribal
knowledge, you know what I mean.
So it makes sense for
us to write it down, basically.
>> I mean that, and if you think
you're gonna remember something in
three months, you're not.
>> Yeah, I'll do three days.
[LAUGH] Yeah, I agree.
Having the assumption that your brain
is as good at storing variables as
a computer is wrong [LAUGH].
That's why ChatGPT is being created.